_pages/research.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/
---

I am a post doc in the Zimmer Lab at the University of Vienna .
I am interested in understanding the interaction of neuronal activity and behaviour and I mostly use #celegans to understand it.
For that I use whole brain single neuron freely moving recordings of worms performing different behaviours.

Before that I did my PhD with [Stephan Sigrist](https://www.bcp.fu-berlin.de/biologie/arbeitsgruppen/genetik/ag_sigrist/mitarbeiter/leiter/sigrist/index.html) at the Freie Universität of Berlin, with an IMPRS fellowship from the Max Planck of Colloids and Interfaces in Potsdam, where I had [Reinhard Lipowsky](https://www.mpikg.mpg.de/rl/) as a co-supervisor.
Back then (2012) my research focus was on  synapse assembly. The Sigrist lab  
## Publications

[A high affinity RIM-binding protein/Aplip1 interaction prevents the formation of ectopic axonal active zones
](https://elifesciences.org/articles/06935) - **eLife 2015**

Matthias Siebert, Mathias Böhme, Jan Driller, Husam Babikir, Malou Mampell, **Ulises Rey**, Niraja Ramesh, Tanja Matkovic, Nicole Holton, Suneel Reddy-Alla, Fabian Göttfert, Dirk Kamin, Christine Quentin, Susan Klinedinst, Till F. M. Andlauer, Stefan W. Hell, Catherine A. Collins, Markus C. Wahl, Bernhard Loll, Stephan J. Sigrist.




[Presynaptic Spinophilin tunes Neurexin signaling to control active zone architecture and function](https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms9362) - **Nature Communications 2015**

Karzan Muhammad, Suneel Reddy, Jan Driller, Dietmar Schreiner, **Ulises Rey**, Mathias Böhme, Christina Hollmann, Niraja Ramesh, Harald Depner, Janine Lützkendorf, Tanja Matkovic, Dominique Bergeron, Jan Schmoranzer, Fabian Goettfert, Matthew Holt, Markus Wahl, Stefan Hell, Peter Scheiffele, Alexander Walter, Bernhard Loll, Stephan J. Sigrist.



[Stable Positioning of Unc13 Restricts Synaptic Vesicle Fusion to Defined Release Sites to Promote Synchronous Neurotransmission
](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627317307316) - **Neuron 2017**

Suneel Reddy-Alla, Mathias Böhme, Eric Reynolds, Christina Beis, Andreas Grasskamp, Malou Mampell, Marta Maglione, Meida Jusyte, **Ulises Rey**, Husam Babikir, Anthony McCarthy, Christine Quentin, Tanja Matkovic, Dominique Bergeron, Zeeshan Mushtaq, Fabian Göttfert, David Owald, Thorsten Mielke, Stefan W. Hell, Stephan Sigrist and Alexander Walter.


[Presynaptic biogenesis by axonal transport of lysosome-related vesicles
](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627318306779) - **Neuron 2018**

Anela Vukoja*, __Ulises Rey*__ , Astrid Petzoldt*, Dennis Vollweiter, Christoph Ott, Christine Quentin, Dymtro Puchkov, Eric Reynolds, Martin Lehmann, Svea Hohensee, Stefanie Rosa, Reinhard Lipowsky, Stephan J. Sigrist and Volker Haucke.


[Rapid active zone remodeling consolidates presynaptic potentiation](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-08977-6) - **Nature Neuroscience 2019**

Mathias A. Böhme, Anthony W. McCarthy, Andreas T. Grasskamp, Christine B. Beuschel,
Pragya Goel, Meida Jusyte, Desiree Laber, Sheng Huang, **Ulises Rey**, Astrid G. Petzoldt, Martin Lehmann, Fabian Göttfert, Pejmun Haghighi, Stefan W. Hell, David Owald, Dion Dickman, Stephan J. Sigrist & Alexander M. Walter

## PhD thesis
The results of my work at the Sigrist lab are compiled in my PhD thesis, which you can read [here](https://refubium.fu-berlin.de/handle/fub188/22959).

Commit message:

updated research, added youtube video

_pages/research.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/
---

In my research I want to have a better understanding of behaviour. I want to understand how behaviour is organized and how is it produced. In order to do so, I study the amazing nematode *C. elegans*.

*C. elegans* allows me to analyze and quantify behaviour and behavioural transitions. In this video you can see a worm transitioning through different behaviours until it reaches de bacterial food patch (Dark round spot):
Random (local) search, global search, directed chemotaxis and food exploitation. 
<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cQ4g8hVPx1k" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Publications

[A high affinity RIM-binding protein/Aplip1 interaction prevents the formation of ectopic axonal active zones
](https://elifesciences.org/articles/06935) - **eLife 2015**

Matthias Siebert, Mathias Böhme, Jan Driller, Husam Babikir, Malou Mampell, **Ulises Rey**, Niraja Ramesh, Tanja Matkovic, Nicole Holton, Suneel Reddy-Alla, Fabian Göttfert, Dirk Kamin, Christine Quentin, Susan Klinedinst, Till F. M. Andlauer, Stefan W. Hell, Catherine A. Collins, Markus C. Wahl, Bernhard Loll, Stephan J. Sigrist.




[Presynaptic Spinophilin tunes Neurexin signaling to control active zone architecture and function](https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms9362) - **Nature Communications 2015**

Karzan Muhammad, Suneel Reddy, Jan Driller, Dietmar Schreiner, **Ulises Rey**, Mathias Böhme, Christina Hollmann, Niraja Ramesh, Harald Depner, Janine Lützkendorf, Tanja Matkovic, Dominique Bergeron, Jan Schmoranzer, Fabian Goettfert, Matthew Holt, Markus Wahl, Stefan Hell, Peter Scheiffele, Alexander Walter, Bernhard Loll, Stephan J. Sigrist.



[Stable Positioning of Unc13 Restricts Synaptic Vesicle Fusion to Defined Release Sites to Promote Synchronous Neurotransmission
](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627317307316) - **Neuron 2017**

Suneel Reddy-Alla, Mathias Böhme, Eric Reynolds, Christina Beis, Andreas Grasskamp, Malou Mampell, Marta Maglione, Meida Jusyte, **Ulises Rey**, Husam Babikir, Anthony McCarthy, Christine Quentin, Tanja Matkovic, Dominique Bergeron, Zeeshan Mushtaq, Fabian Göttfert, David Owald, Thorsten Mielke, Stefan W. Hell, Stephan Sigrist and Alexander Walter.


[Presynaptic biogenesis by axonal transport of lysosome-related vesicles
](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627318306779) - **Neuron 2018**

Anela Vukoja*, __Ulises Rey*__ , Astrid Petzoldt*, Dennis Vollweiter, Christoph Ott, Christine Quentin, Dymtro Puchkov, Eric Reynolds, Martin Lehmann, Svea Hohensee, Stefanie Rosa, Reinhard Lipowsky, Stephan J. Sigrist and Volker Haucke.


[Rapid active zone remodeling consolidates presynaptic potentiation](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-08977-6) - **Nature Neuroscience 2019**

Mathias A. Böhme, Anthony W. McCarthy, Andreas T. Grasskamp, Christine B. Beuschel,
Pragya Goel, Meida Jusyte, Desiree Laber, Sheng Huang, **Ulises Rey**, Astrid G. Petzoldt, Martin Lehmann, Fabian Göttfert, Pejmun Haghighi, Stefan W. Hell, David Owald, Dion Dickman, Stephan J. Sigrist & Alexander M. Walter

## PhD thesis
The results of my work at the Sigrist lab are compiled in my PhD thesis, which you can read [here](https://refubium.fu-berlin.de/handle/fub188/22959).
